Problem1: BaseActuator doesn't have to know BasicClause!

Problem2: a Clause should be able to produce a list of Actions.

Problem3: Then each Action can be executed in the scope of a particular Enviro. real Eviro ids should be queried/created only when the Actions are actually executed on that Enviro, not before. 

Problem4: some entities are "not real objects", only top level entities are "real objects". But a nested Clause taken by itself knows only its entities as the "top level".

Problem5: Edit Actions may need the "ownership chain" realted to the top level entity they are editing.


You could identify the top level Clause by passing/not passing to its toAction()method some specific argument that identifies it as the top level clause. 

What about recursively passing down to each toAction() the top level Clause, so that complete information about all of the entities can be retrieved by any deeply nested Clause?

eg: x is a red button

* x(id0)
* red(id0)
* button(id0)

<!-- 
Scenario 1:

Creator Action (button(id0)) runs first, it checks if a "red button x" exists (gets full info from top level Clause), if "red button x" doesn't exist, it creates a button and calls it x... and makes it red???

But, but... this basically means that the Creator/Editor distinction is not to be made during Clause.toAction(), but during Action.exec()... And it also suggests that a grouping of Clauses-to-an-Action by id could be more suitable (just do everything realated to one entity in one go).

Scenario 2:

Editor Action (red(id0), but even x(id0)) runs first, it checks if a "red button x" exists, if it doesn't it creates a new "red, x". But then Creator Action has a problem, because it's looking for a "red button x" not just a "red x".
 -->

Scenario 1:

Creator Action button(id0) runs first, it checks if an "x" (JUST theme!) exists (gets theme-description of id0 from top level clause), and then creates a "button x" in the Environment, or gets whatever is "x" in the Environment and makes it a button.

Scenario 2:

Editor Action red(id0) runs first, it checks if an "x" exists, and makes it red, or creates a "red x" placeholder.

Scenario 3:

Editor Action x(id0) runs, it checks if an "x" exists, or makes a new "x" placeholder.

Problem1 & Problem2: solved because Actuator gets a `clause`, and does this: `clause.toAction(clause)`. And this returns a list of Actions.

Problem3: Actions actually query the Enviro for the full theme-description of an entity (they obtain it from top level Clause passed down recursively). No id is created in Enviro before the execution of an Action.

Problem4 & Problem5: Any deeply nested Clause gets the top level clause passed down as a param of toAction().

