
# 1 New Cst+Ast framework.
# 2 Eliminate Clause search algo, replace with simpler noun-phrase based choice.

-----

tmp remove macros/prelude and focus on getting the json specification of Csts to work well and integrate it with Ast specificiation if possible

pluralizer grammar role
uniquant and final-s are both pluralizers
literal strings in Member for inline lexeme definition
are ---> type copula, no need to specify that root is be
assume that all other verbs are regular verbs ?????
rm cardinality from lexeme, make is a prop of a constituent
indefart is ---> new-operator
defart is ---> existing/default
the identifier and whitespace problem



function validateCst(ast,cst):boolean{
	// checks if the cst matches the ast, both given in as objects
}


maybe Cst should store the name of the Ast it is instantiating


extract keys as type from AstNode types, make lists of keys, use list to check if any given Cst conforms to the Ast type it claims to be instantiating. Doesn't work with expand!

// NOUN PHRASE AST-MODEL
// search for Thing[] noun-phrase resolves to directly, without converting to Clause

{
  isPlural? : { type : "boolean"  },
  limit ? : { type : "number"},
  isNew ? : { type : "boolean" },
  modifiers? : {type:"adjective", number : "*"},
  head : {type : "noun"},
  owner ? : {type : "expression"},
}


// NOUN PHRASE CST-MODEL
{
	astType : 'noun-phrase',
	name : "noun-phrase1",
	and :	[ // everything one after the other in order

		{ literals : ["every", "any"], role : "pluralizer", number : '1|0' },
		SPACE,
		{
			exor : [ // any one of these but not both
				{ literals : ["the", "old"], role : "old-operator", number: '1|0'},
				{ literals : ["a", "an", "new"], role : "new-operator", number : '1|0'},
			],
		},
		SPACE,
		LIMIT,
		SPACE,
		{ type : ["adjective"], role : "modifier", number : '*'},
		SPACE,
		{ type : ["noun", "string", "number"], role : "head", number : 1},
		{ literals : ["s"], role : "pluralizer", number : '1|0'},
		SPACE,
		{	
			and : [
			{ literals : ["of"], notAst:true },
			{ type : "noun-phrase", role : "owner", number : 1 },
			]
		},
	]
}



// SIMPLE SENTENCE AST-MODEL

{
  verb : {type : ["verb", "copula"]}
  subject?: {type : "expression"},
  object?: {type : "expression"},
  receiver?: {type : "expression"},
  origin?: {type : "expression"},
  location?: {type : "expression"},
  instrument?: {type : "expression"},
  companion?: {type : "expression"},
  negation?: {type : "boolean"},
}


x = 1 //OK!

a new x = 2 // OK! NOW THERE ARE 2 Xs

the x // WARNING:AMBIGUOUS, THERE ARE 2 Xs! CHOSING LATEST!

the 2 xs // OK (DO NOTHING)

the button is red // ERROR:NO BUTTONS!

a button is red // OK! CREATED NEW ONE!

the button is green // OK! UPDATED OLD!

the 2 buttons are black // WARNING! ONLY 1 BUTTON EXIST! UPDATED 1 BUTTON!



simple-sentence := expression [negation] verb expression 
expression := and-expression
and-expression := sum-expression 'and' [sum-expression]
sum-expression := mul-expression '+' noun-phrase
mul-expression := noun-phrase '*' [noun-phrase]
noun-phrase := ...


"Maybe you mean this" functionality against typos.


# Make helper verbs compulsory?
* solves redefinition problem
* solves the verb-or-noun problem
* verbs and nouns are represented by identifiers, just like any other programming language

a button is red.
the red button does appendChild a green button.
do log x.
log is the last 2 instructions.


# Problem with current Member.literals is that if multi-word they won't be recognized. Gotta define keywords as lists of char tokens.


Finish up the new parser by this week (1-6 may)
	Finish up the new parser
	refactor
	rm KoolParser and EagerLexer
	rm Lexeme
	rm macros (temprorarily)


Replace search algorithm (7-13).
	rm solveMaps()
	rm Clause & subclasses
	add simple noun-phrase based search algo that gets Thing[]



Inside of parseLiteral() just check length of requested string, parse for that len, with memento


How to choose the syntax for which to output an error message: the one with the greatest percentage of parsed components!

reduce directive in parser, for chars of strings, ids and numbers.


take "genitive" out of nounphrase



# Keywords misrecognized as identifiers:
In parser, extract keywords and prevent any keyword from being parsed as an identifier.
