# Strengthen Macros

* Quantitative Adjectives lexemes ("zero-or-more", "one-or-more", "optional" ...), map each of them to a Cardinality.

* "or" syntax in macros, to be able to define an article as "defart or indefart" ...

# Multi-word lexemes for prettier macros 

* ("zero or more", "one or more", "noun phrase" ...)

# How to deal with lexeme type hierarchies ?

* "or" syntax in macros

* multi typed lexemes (each lexeme has a LIST of types)


# IMPORTANT : ENFORCE parsing precendence

"Precendence" isn't JUST number of members, but rather being at a "higher level" in the dependency graph.

If one ast A depends on another B, then A has parse precedence over B (eg: try parsing a copula sentence before just falling back to a noun phrase).

If two asts depend on each other, as in a cyclic dependecy, (for example like noun phrase and subordinate clause) then use number of members as fallback. (noun phrase has precendence over subordinate clause).

Sort asts (syntaxes) for precendence in Parser.


# Problem: cyclic ast dependencies when defining using macro 

A macro only accepts a 'grammar' in macropart, so you need to define 'lower level' constructs first. The problem is that there are cyclic dependecies between some constructs (eg: complement and noun phrase) so you can't define one before the other. 

~~Solution: Pre-declarations are ugly duplication of data and shouldn't exist.~~

If macro accepted also 'noun' (beside existing 'grammar'), then things that are supposed to be copulasentences will be parsed as macros.

* Macropart accepts noun beside grammar.
* Macros get "artificially" lower precedence than custom constructs.
* Optional "macro" keyword to override any custom construct.



